<!-- Source: https://developer.tastytrade.com/api-overview/ -->

# tastytrade API Overview


- [API Conventions (REST / JSON)](/api-overview/#api-conventions-rest-json)

- [Api Versions](/api-overview/#api-versions)

- [Auth Patterns](/api-overview/#auth-patterns)


- [Access Tokens (Oauth2)](/api-overview/#oauth)

- [Authorization Header](/api-overview/#authorization-header)

- [tastytrade Symbology](/api-overview/#tastytrade-symbology)

- [Error Codes](/api-overview/#error-codes)

- [High-level Concepts](/api-overview/#high-level-concepts)


# API Conventions (REST / JSON)


### Headers


#### User-Agent


All requests must include a `User-Agent` header or they will be rejected. The format muse be `<product>/<version>`. The `product` and `version` you choose does not matter as long as it is submitted in the proper format. Most people make it specific to the client they are using, like `tastytrade-api-client/1.0` or `my-custom-client/2.0`.


#### Content-Type


`Content-Type` and `Accept` headers should be `application/json` since requests and responses will always be in json format.


#### Accept-Version


Use the `Api-Version` header to hit a specific version of our api. The value is always a date in the format `YYYYMMDD`. You can find out which versions are available in our Api Docs section. See below for an explanation of our Api Versioning strategy.


### Parameters


Json keys are dasherized in the request and response body. For example:


```js
{
"this-key-is-dasherized": "value goes here"
}

```


GET requests must send parameters in the url (i.e. query parameters). Some GET endpoints have a parameter of type `Array[String]`. These must be provided in the format `my-key[]=value`. If you wanted to send multiple values, you would simply repeat the key: `my-key[]=value1&my-key[]=value2`.


For all other HTTP methods (POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE), use a json body. Remember to `dasherize-the-parameter-names`:


POST/accounts/{account_number}/orders

```js
{
"underlying-symbol": "AAPL",
"quantity": 1,
"time-in-force": "Day"
// other params here
}

```


### Response Schema


Response json will have a `data` key and a `context` key. Multi-object responses will have an `items` array nested inside the `data` object:


```js
{
"data": {
"items": [
/* list of json objects */
]
},
"context": "/accounts/{account_number}/positions"
}

```


Error responses will include an `error` object with `code` and `message` properties:


```js
{
"error": {
"code": "not_permitted",
"message": "User not permitted access"
}
}

```


# Api Versions


tastytrade will sometimes need to introduce breaking changes to one or more endpoints. To avoid breaking your existing code, tastytrade will deprecate the existing version and add the breaking changes into a new api version.


Api versions are always the date at which the version was introduced. For example, a version introduced on September 4, 2025 will be `20250904`.


To target a specific api version in your request, add the `Accept-Version` header to each request. For example: `Accept-Version: 20250904`.


Deprecated Api versions will have 9 months to live. Please ensure you are monitoring the Api Docs section and update your code to hit the latest version. If you request a version that no longer exists, you'll get an Http 406 error with a response that looks like this:


```vim
"error": {
"code": 406,
"message": "The requested version is not supported.
}

```


The Api Docs pages will tell you which versions are available and which are deprecated (see the screenshot below). You'll see a dropdown list at the top of some api docs pages that lets you view each version. Older versions will have one or more deprecated endpoints.


You should also check the [Release Notes](/release-notes/) page for a list of changes introduced with each Api Version.


For example, if you're attempting to hit api version `20250830` but you send `Accept-Version: 20240829`, you'll receive the above Http 406 error.


If you always want to target the latest api version, you can send today's date in the `Accept-Version` header. For example, if today were January 1st, 2025, you'd send `Accept-Version: 20250101`. Tastytrade will always route your request to the nearest Api version **at or before your target.** For example, suppose we offer 2 Api versions: `20250101` and `20250201`. A request with `Accept-Version: 20250102` will be routed to the `20250101` version. We will not route to a version greater than your requested version.


# Auth Patterns


Requests to the tastytrade API are authenticated via access tokens. The access token is sent via the `Authorization` header of each request.


## Access Tokens (Oauth2)


Access tokens are generated by the `POST /oauth/token` endpoint. You must have an Oauth client registered with tastytrade in order to use the Oauth endpoints.


For detailed instructions on using the Oauth flow, see our [Oauth2](/api-guides/oauth/) API guide.


Access tokens are valid for 15 minutes and must be refreshed when they expire. Refreshing an access token generates a new token. You cannot extend the life of an existing access token.


## Authorization Header


All requests to the tastytrade api are authenticated via the `Authorization` header on the request. The `Authorization` header's value is a bearer token, meaning the access token must be prefixed with `Bearer`. For example:


`Authorization: Bearer abc123`


Please note that real access tokens are significantly longer than the example above.


Requests that do not include the Authorization header will receive an Http 401 response code (Unauthorized).


Requests with an expired or access token in the Authorization header will also receive an Http 401 response code.


# tastytrade Symbology


### Equities


Equity symbols contain only alphanumeric characters (A-Z, 0-9) with an occasional `/`. A few examples:
`AAPL`
`BRK/A`


### Equity Options


tastytrade uses the same conventions as the OCC for equity option symbols. In short, there are 4 pieces that make up an equity option symbol:


- Root symbol - 6 alphanumeric digits with whitespace padding.


- `AAPL`

- `FB`

- `BRK/A`

- Expiration date - 6 numeric digits with format `yymmdd`.

- Option type - `P` or `C`

- Strike price - 8 numeric digits front-padded with 0s. No decimals. Multiply strike by 1000.


- 64.0 strike: `00064000`

- 1050.55 strike: `01050550`

- 0.50 strike: `00000500`


Example equity option symbols:


AAPL June 17, 2022 150 Put: `AAPL 220617P00150000`


SPY Nov 18, 2022 400 Call: `SPY 221118C00400000`


SPX May 20, 2022 4025 Call: `SPXW 220520C04025000`


### Futures


Futures symbols always start with a slash followed by the contract code. The contract code consists of 3 things: the product code (A-Z), the month code, and a 1-2 digit number for the year. For a full list of futures products that we support, hit the [List Future Products](/api-guides/instruments/#list-future-products) endpoint. Each item in the response has a `code`, which is the product code.


E-mini S&P 500 December 2022: `/ESZ2`


Crude Oil December 2022: `/CLZ2`


CBOE Volatility Index November 2022: `/VXX22`


You can find a list of all month codes [here](https://www.cmegroup.com/month-codes.html).


### Future Options


Future options are different from equity options in that each future option expiration series has a unique product code. For example, monthly CL future options have a product code `LO`. Weekly CL options have product codes `LO1`, `LO2`, `LO3`, `LO4`, and `LO5` where `LO1` is the first Friday of the month, `LO2` is the second Friday of the month, etc.


Other future products may have weekly options for any day of the week with their own set of option product codes. For example, ES has weekly Monday options with product codes `E1A`, `E2A`, `E3A`, `E4A`, `E5A`.


Both the future product code and the future option product code will be present in a future option symbol. The future option symbol will always start with a `./`, followed by the future contract code, the option contract code, the expiration date, option type (C/P), and strike price. Here are some examples:


**./CLZ2 LO1X2 221104C91**


`LO1X2` means it's a November weekly option product. `CLZ2` means this option settles into the December CL future contract, which expires 2022-11-21. The `221104C91` means it's a Call option at the 91 strike expiring 2022-11-04.


**./ESZ2 E1AZ2 221205P3720**


The option contract code is `E1AZ2`. Future contract code is `ESZ2`. The option product code is `E1A`, which is a weekly Monday product. So this is a 2022-12-05 Put at the 3720 strike which settles into the December ES Future contract.


For a full list of future option products that we support, hit the [List Future Option Products](/api-guides/instruments/#list-future-option-products) endpoint. Each item in the response has a `root-symbol`, which is the product code.


### Cryptocurrencies


Cryptocurrency symbols can be found via `GET /instruments/cryptocurrencies` in the `symbol` field of the response data. Some examples:


`BCH/USD` - Bitcoin cash


`BTC/USD` - Bitcoin


# Error Codes


**400** - Invalid request. Often indicates that your request body has missing or invalid parameters.


**401** - Authorization token has expired or is invalid. Also indicates an invalid username/password when logging in.


**403** - User is not authorized to access this resource. This may occur when a customer tries to access data for an account belonging to a different customer, for example.


**404** - Endpoint or resource not found. This may occur when attempting to fetch data that does not exist (a specific order, for example).


**422** - Unprocessable content. This occurs when the action you are performing is invalid, depending on the context. For example, our order system will return a 422 with a message in the response json if your order was rejected.


**429** - Too Many Requests. This occurs when you send a high amount of requests in a short period of time to the point where it exceeds reasonable thresholds.


**500** - Indicates an issue with tastytrade's servers. Returns a support identifier that our team can use to track down the issue.


# High-level Concepts


## Orders


Orders are the mechanism by which you trade. They are also how you manage your positions. Each order can have a maximum of 4 legs. Each leg has a symbol, a quantity, and an action.


The action includes both a direction (buy/sell) and an effect (open/close). Open means "Increase my position." Close means "Decrease my position."


In other words, an opening order will increase the quantity of your position (if you don't have a position, a new one will be created when the order fills). A closing order will *decrease the quantity of your* **existing position**.


For example, to buy 100 shares of AAPL stock, you would submit an order with a single leg. The leg's symbol would be `AAPL`. The leg's quantity would be 100. The leg's action would be `Buy to Open`, meaning you are buying with the intent to open a new position. When this order fills, tastytrade creates a position in your account with a quantity of 100, a direction of `Long`, and a symbol of `AAPL`.


If you then decide to sell 10 shares of AAPL stock, you'd submit an order with a single leg. The leg's symbol would again be `AAPL`. The leg's quantity would be 10. The leg's action would be `Sell to Close`, meaning you are closing 10 shares of your existing position. When this order fills, tastytrade adjusts your position quantity down by 10, leaving you with 90 long shares.


It is perfectly acceptable to close out your entire position in a single order. If you are long 100 shares of `AAPL`, you can close them all by submitting an order to `Sell to Close` 100 shares.


It is perfectly acceptable to submit an opening sell order. Most call this "selling short." This type of order will result in a position with a `Short` direction. **Please note** you cannot `Sell to Open` if you have an existing `Long` position. Likewise you cannot `Buy to Open` if you have an existing `Short` position. Holding both a long and short position is not permitted at tastytrade.


For a detailed overview of how to structure and submit an order, head to the [Order Submission](/order-submission/) page.


Orders have a `status` once they are submitted. The tastytrade order status lifecycle is explained in detail on the [Order Flow](/order-flow/) page.


## Positions


A position is created/adjusted when an order fills. Positions have a symbol, a quantity, and a direction.


You cannot create multiple positions with the same symbol. For example, you cannot simultaneously be long AAPL stock and short AAPL stock. If you are long AAPL stock and submit a sell order, the quantity of your position will decrease until it hits zero. If you continue to sell stock after hitting 0, the direction of your position will flip from long to short. Position quantity is always a positive number.


See our [Account Positions Api Guide](/api-guides/account-positions/) for more information.


## Accounts


Your account is tied to almost every api endpoint. You can open multiple accounts, but each api endpoint will operate on a single account. You cannot submit an order to multiple accounts in a single http request.


See our [Customer Account Information Api Guide](/api-guides/customer-account-info/) for more information.


## Trading Statuses


Each tastytrade account is linked to a single trading status. The trading status gives information on what privileges your account has, such as futures trading, crypto trading, options trading strategies, etc.


See our [Account Trading Status Api Guide](/api-guides/account-status/) for more information.


## Balances


Each tastytrade account is linked to a single account balance. The account balance gives current information about cash, buying power, the value of long and short positions, net liquidating value, and other data.


Your account balance is updated when events like order fills and cash deposits occur.


See our [Account Balances Api Guide](/api-guides/account-balances/) for more information.


## Transactions


tastytrade maintains a historical ledger of each account activity that affects your balance. We create a transaction for each of these account activities. Some examples include order fills, dividends, fees, cash deposits, cash withdrawals, etc.


See our [Account Transactions Api Guide](/api-guides/account-transactions/) for more information.


## Instruments


An instrument is a single tradeable security, such as an equity, equity option, future, future option, or cryptocurrency. Each has a unique symbol by which it is identified. The symbol is used when submitting an order and when positions are created.


See our [Instruments Api Guide](/api-guides/instruments/) for more information.